# T1HG-UCBguider
Urothelial carcinoma of bladder (UCB) ranks as the 10th most common cancer worldwide, with deteriorating prognosis as the disease advances. High-grade T1 (T1HG) UCB has a high likelihood of recurrence and progression to muscle invasion. Bladder preservation with Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) immunotherapy, or radical cystectomy is the current treatment option. However, selecting the appropriate therapy to avoid overtreatment or delayed treatment is challenging for urologists. In this study, multi-omic clustering delineated a high-risk molecular subtype of T1HG UCB with a threefold higher rate of follow-up radical cystectomy, exhibiting significantly elevated recurrence (HR = 2.91; p = 0.004) and progression risks (HR = 3.84; p = 0.006), and attenuated BCG therapeutic response (p < 0.001) in external validation. Tumor microenvironment profiling revealed concurrent immunosuppression and tumor anoikis resistance mechanisms associated with high-risk subtype. We constructed a multi-omic predictor retaining these key signatures, with its integrated model (AUC = 0.777) and clinical-methylomic/clinical-transcriptomic sub-models demonstrating robust prognostic stratification across seven validation cohorts. Conceptually, T1HG-UCBguider incorporating tumor microenvironment information accurately identifies the high-risk patients with poor response to BCG treatment in T1HG UCB, guiding timely radical cystectomy.

Machine learning model construction was performed silimilarly as previously described (PMID: 34875674), the 18 mRNA markers and 7 MHB markers were integrated with 4 clinical variables (age, gender, tumor stage, and grade) to construct two machine learning sub-models within the T1HG-UCBguider framework.
